---
layout: post
title: Editing in Grand Budapest Hotel
img: post-3.jpg
---
> "Film Editing is the process by which different images and shots are linked to-gether"(Corrigan and White,134)

Chaos within a picturesque world is a theme that is explored in _The Grand Budapest Hotel_ (2014) This is helped by the use of editing.In this short essay I will look into the use of continuous editing and pacing and how it relates to this theme. The continuous editing helps to give the film a logical structure to the film and pacing of the film illustrates chaos in the film.

The editing in _The Grand Budapest Hotel_(2014) is created in a way that each shot happens to have structure, in other words the editing follows the continuous editing style. Corrigan and White (144) describe continuity editing as "each shot has a continuous relationship with to the next shot". In fig1 there is a continuous sequence shown shown by the old man writer being the narrator talking about the hotel to a shot where the hotel is shown, then a younger version of the narrator starts to describe different parts of the hotel with the shots reflecting what he is talking about. This helps to set the scene and world and history of the Budapest Hotel over time in a logical manner.
 
<iframe frameborder="0" width="480" height="270" src="//www.dailymotion.com/embed/video/k2L5tgluZDI1G3mKsUB" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### fig1

In contrast to this is the scene in Figure 2 where there is a continuous order to the scene but in spite of the short shots, as they use fast camera movement help to give the scene a sense of chaos.This is shown though the short shots of the car moving rapidly to it destination changing angle each time a new shot is shown and also creates a certain rhythm to the scene. Rhythm in terms of editing can be defined as how shots are packed together by how quick the cut of each shot is made (Corrigan and White 158-159). Therefore because each shot take is short it creates a fast paced rhythm which gives the sequence a sense of urgency. This is also further illustrated when the car stops and Mr. Gustave and Zero rush out into the manor to get to Mr. Gustave Old Lover's coffin and as they are going to the coffin short shots are used as well to show their urgency to arrive at their their destination.


      

<iframe frameborder="0" width="480" height="270" src="//www.dailymotion.com/embed/video/k571PXachUTjovmKtf1" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### fig2

## bibliography
Corrigan, Timothy, and Patricia White. 2014. The Film Experience: An Introduction. 4 edition. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin’s.

## Filmography
Anderson, Wes. 2014. The Grand Budapest Hotel. Adventure, Comedy, Drama.
