---
layout: post
title: Sound and Music in Spirited Away
img: post-4.jpg
---
> "Sound is a sensual experience that in some cases makes an even deeper impression of the films visuals"(Corrigan and White,176)

Sound is used in _Spirited Away_ (2008) as a way to illustrate the unique world that the main character gets forced into and how she reacts to this world. Corrigan and White(183-184) say there are two main forms of sound in a film: diegetic sound and non diegetic sound which i will describe and show examples in this essay and how it fits into the theme. This movie uses both of these types of sound.

Corrigan and White (183-184) describe non diegetic sound as sound that is not within the world of the movie for example the films soundtrack. In Figure 1 the film soundtrack is used to emphasize the main character’s apprehension of walking down the large stairs by each beat of music being in time with her footsteps,  starting with just single note playing when she is aggressively trying to put her foot down on the next step but when she is rushing down the steps the beat of the music gets faster. This is empathizing the feeling how sacred the main character is feeling as she is rushing down the stairs. This shows us that though the use of a movies soundtrack it can a deepen the understanding of what a characters is going though in a scene.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/pyizXgDoEtc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### fig1  

Corrigan and White(183-184) describe diegetic sound as sound that comes within the films world e.g sound effects and voices. In Figure 2's scene it is used as a way to build up a unique world through the use of sound effects. Sound effects help to give the viewer a imitation of the real world by adding in ambient sounds like birds chirping, footsteps etc (Corrigan and White 183-184). This is shown in the scene by the mud spirit squelching sounds mixed with its visual representation of a walking ball of mud creates a unique character that sets it apart from the real world. This is also shown in the footsteps and grunts that the main character produces when she is trying to clean the spirit which helps to show the struggle that the main character is going though.  
 

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/170333917" width="640" height="320" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### fig2
